The Unifying Practice of the Prayer1
by Jamyang Khyentsé Chökyi Lodrö

Guru-deva-ḍākinyai
The practice which unites the blessings of the outer, inner and secret guru yogas is as follows:
The Visualization
ah, neyul nöchü dakpé zhing
Ah! The environment and everything within it is a pure realm.
dün khar ja ö trikpé long
In the sky before me, in an expanse filled with rainbow light,
chötrin gyatsö gangwé ü
Amidst vast ocean-like clouds of offerings,
sengtri pé nyi dawé teng
Resides Guru Vajradhara of Uḍḍiyāna,
lama orgyen dorjé chang
Upon a lion throne and seats of lotus, sun and moon.
kar mar tsenpé ziji bar
Reddish white in complexion, he shines with the splendor of the signs and marks.
sang gö dungma chögö dang
He is magnificently attired in a secret gown, shirt,
zaok ber muk jipar sol
Monastic robe, and dark-red brocade cloak.
u la pé zha chak yepé
Upon his head is the lotus crown, and his right hand brandishes a vajra,
dorjé char zhing yön nyamzhak
While his left, in equanimity, holds
tö zhal tsé yi bumpa nam
A skull-cup containing a long-life vase.
zhab nyi rolpé tab kyi zhuk
His legs are poised in royal ease,
chen yön kha tam ga ten ching
And he cradles a khaṭvāṅga in his left arm.
nangsi zilnön chenpo yi
Inside the conch mansion of the head
chiwo dungkhang nang dak tu
Of this supreme subduer of all existence
lama guru dewa ché
Resides Guru Dewa Chenpo, Guru of Great Bliss.
chak nyi nyamzhak kapala
His two hands are in equipoise,
dütsi bam yikkar pö tsen
Holding a skull-cup filled with ambrosia, marked by the syllable baṃ.
u la shé'ü nyen zhu dang
His head is adorned with the long-flapped hat,
ku la sang gö pö ka dang
And he wears the secret gown, wide-sleeved robe,
chögö sol zhing dor kyil zhuk
And monastic robe, as he sits in vajra posture.
drinpar tsokyé dorjé ni
At Guru Vajradhara’s throat resides Tsokyé Dorjé, the Lake-Born Guru.
zhi dzum kar mar tsenpé dzé
He smiles peacefully and has a reddish white complexion; he is graced by the signs and marks.
chak nyi dorjé töchang nam
His two hands hold a vajra and an ambrosia-filled skull-cup.
cherbu dar dang rinpoche
His naked body is adorned with jewels, silks
gyen dang utpal trengwa dang
And a garland of utpala flowers.
sang yum mandha rawa ni
The secret consort Mandāravā embraces him.
dri tö dzin dang nyampar jor
She holds a knife2 and a skull-cup.
tukkar pema nyimé teng
At Guru Vajradhara’s heart, upon seats of lotus, sun and moon,
gyal sen nolwé den tengdu
Is dark blue Dorjé Draktsal, Vajra Wrath,
dorjé drakstal kudok ting
Standing upon crossed male and female demons.
tro chak gar gü nyam denpa
Wrathful and seductive, he displays the nine moods of dance.
zhal chik chak nyi dordril dzin
He has one face, and his two hands hold a vajra and bell.
sang gö pöka go lön treng
He wears the secret gown, a wide-sleeved robe, a garland of severed heads,
drul chün rügyen tak lang dang
Snake bracelets, bone ornaments, elephant and
mipak yangzhi lasok sol
Human skins, and other hides too.
gar gü nyamden mepung ü
Revelling in the nine moods amidst this inferno
yum chok naljor marmo ni
Is the supreme consort, Red Yoginī.
dri tö dzin dang tril tab su
She holds a knife3 and skull-cup, and, embracing her consort,
zhab nyi yé kum yön kyang zheng
She stands with her right leg drawn and left leg extended.
né sum dorjé sum gyi tsen
These deities’ three places are marked by the three vajras,
ö trö yeshe chendrang gyur
And from them light shoots forth, inviting the wisdom deities.
Call out longingly with the Ngön Kalma invocation:
hung, ngön gyi kalpé dangpo la
Hūṃ! At the very beginning of this age,
orgyen yul gyi nubjang tsam
In the north-west of the land of Uḍḍiyāna,
pema gesar dongpo la
In the heart of a lotus flower,
yatsen chok gi ngödrub nyé
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
pema jungné zhé su drak
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
khor du khandro mangpo dang
Surrounded by your retinue of many ḍākinīs
rigdzin drubtob gyatsö kor
And oceanic hosts of vidyādharas and siddhas.
khyé kyi jesu dak drub kyi
Following in your footsteps, I practise.
jingyi lab chir shek su sol
Come! Inspire us with your blessings—
né chok diru jin pob la
Shower down your blessings on this supreme place!
drub chok dak la wang zhi kur
Grant us, supreme practitioners, the four empowerments!
gek dang lokdren barché sol
Remove any negativity, obstructing force or disturbance to our practice!
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
om ah hung benza guru pema tötreng tsal benza samaya dza | dza hung bam ho |
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma tötreng tsal vajra-samaya jaḥ | jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ |
The wisdom deities thus merge inseparably with the visualization.
Then take refuge, generate bodhicitta, and perform the ten-branch offering:4
Taking Refuge
namo, lama deshek düpé ku
Namo! Lama, in your perfect form, you embody all the sugatas;
könchok sum gyi rangzhin la
Your very nature is that of the Three Jewels: Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha.
dak dang dro druk semchen nam
Until enlightenment is fully realized,
changchub bardu kyab su chi
We and all beings of the six realms take refuge in you.
Generating Bodhicitta
semkyé drowa kün döndu
We arouse the bodhicitta, the heart of the awakened mind, and, for the sake of all living beings,
lama sangye drub né ni
When we have accomplished the enlightened state of the master,
gang la gang dul trinlé kyi
We vow to liberate them all, through the enlightened actions
drowa dralwar damchao
Of teaching each and every one according to their needs.
The Ten-Line Seven-Branch Offering5
lama yidam khandro shek
Approach now, gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs:
nyi da pemé den la zhuk
Take your seats on these cushions of lotus, sun and moon.
lü ngak yi sum gü chaktsal
We offer homage, while devotion fills our body, speech and mind.
chi nang sangwé chöpa bul
We make offerings, outer, inner and secret.
nyam chak dikdrib tol zhing shak
We confess all impairments and breakages of vows, all our harmful actions and obscurations.
sang ngak drub la jé yi rang
We rejoice that the Secret Mantrayāna is being accomplished in practice.
mindrol sang ngak chökhor kor
We request you to turn the wheel of the secret mantra teachings, which ripen and liberate.
nyangen mi da zhuk su sol
Remain with us without passing into nirvana, we pray.
nyingpo semchen döndu ngo
We dedicate all merit so that sentient beings attain the essence of enlightenment.
yangdak dorjé dön tok shok
May we all realize our true vajra nature!

The Prayer
Then recite the prayer (Düsum sangyé… etc.) as much as you can:
dü sum sangye guru rinpoche
Embodiment of buddhas of past, present and future, Guru Rinpoche;
ngödrub kün dak dewa chenpö zhab
Master of all siddhis, Guru of Great Bliss;
barché kün sel düdul drakpo tsal
Dispeller of all obstacles, Wrathful Subjugator of Māras;
solwa deb so jingyi lab tu sol
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessing,
chi nang sangwé barché zhiwa dang
So that outer, inner and secret obstacles are dispelled
sampa lhün gyi drubpar jingyi lob
And all my aspirations are spontaneously fulfilled.

The Mantra Recitation
Next recite this mantra for invoking the wisdom mind:
om ah hung benza guru pema tötreng tsal dewa dakini benza samaya dza siddhi pala hung |
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma tötreng tsal deva-ḍākini vajra-samaya jaḥ siddhi-phala hūṃ
Then recite the vajra-guru mantra as much as you can:
om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ
At the end imagine:
chiwö dewa chenpo lé
From Dewa Chenpo within Guru Vajradhara’s head
changsem dütsi gyün babpé
Flows the ambrosia of bodhicitta
tsokyé dorjé yabyum gyi
Down through the bodies of Tsokyé Dorjé and consort,
ku yi yib gyü drakstal gyi
Then further to fill Drakpo Tsal;
ku gang lha nam jé chak kyi
They glow with passion.
zhudé changsem dütsi gyün
This melting bliss of bodhicitta-ambrosia flows further down
kar la marwé dangchen bab
As a white nectar, glowing with a red hue.
rang gi lü kyi tsa nam kheng
It pours into my body and saturates my channels,
drib dak wang dang ngödrub tob
My obscurations are purified, and I gain empowerment and siddhis.
lama gyepa chenpo yi
Guru Vajradhara is filled with great delight
tsang drak né zhuk dak gi lü
And enters my body through the brahmā aperture.
zhalyé khang gyur tsitta ni
My body transforms into the celestial palace,
rinchen ö kyi gongbü nang
As he joyfully takes residence within a jeweled orb of light
gyepa chenpö zhukpar gyur
At the very centre of my heart.
Guru Vajradhara’s wisdom and your mind merge inseparably; sustain this realization.

The Recitation Visualization
At times, if you wish to do the recitation, recite:
drakpö tukkar pé nyi teng
At the heart of Drakpo, upon a lotus and sun disc,
ser gyi dorjé tsé ngapé
There is a five-pronged golden vajra.
tewar hung ngön salwa lé
The blue hūṃ at its center shines forth from its brilliance
ngak kyi trengwa drar ché trö
Mantra garlands, spontaneously resounding,
gyal chö jin dü nöchü nam
Which make offerings to the Victors and gather their blessings.
lama rigdzin khorlor dzok
The environment and all beings are perfected as the maṇḍala of the Vidyādhara Guru.
Recite both the siddhi6 and the tötreng tsal mantras given above.
At the end of your practice session, the environment and beings dissolve into luminosity.
Then imagine that the deities reappear, and recite prayers of dedication, aspiration and auspiciousness.
If you wish to add a feast offering, you can recite any of the feast offerings found in the
medium-length activity manuals of the two Heart Practices.7

While staying in Darjeeling, on the twenty-ninth day of the fifth month of the Earth Dog year,8
I, Pema Yeshé Dorjé, wrote this practice down just as it appeared to my mind. May the
blessings of the Guru enter the minds of all who encounter this practice. Sarva maṅgalaṃ!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (trans. Peter Woods and Stefan Mang), 2022. The Prayers of Taking
Refuge, Generating Bodhicitta, The Ten-Branch Offering, and the Dü Sum Sangyé Prayer are
courtesy of Rigpa Translations.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gsol 'debs dril sgrub/" in 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo
gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986. Vol. 10: 237–239.

Version: 1.1-20220318
↑ That is, the Prayer in Six Vajra Lines (rdo rje’i tshig rkang drug gi gsol ‘debs) also called
the Düsum Sangyé.↑ The Tsokyé Nyingtik (mtsho skyes snying thig) sādhana clarifies that
this is a curved knife (gri gug).↑ Again, more specifically, the consort is holding a curved
knife.↑ The following prayers are from Jamyang Khyentsé Wangpo’s The General Visualization
for Prayers to Guru Rinpoche (o rgyan rin po che'i gsol 'debs spyi'i rten bskyed): https://www.lotsawahouse.org/tibetan-masters/jamyang-khyentse-wangpo/guru-rinpoche-visualization.↑
This particular liturgy for the seven-branch offering is sometimes known as the ten[-line]
[seven-]branch offering (yan lag bcu pa). We are grateful to Tsangsar Tulku for clarifying
this point.↑ That is, the vajra-guru mantra: oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ↑
These are the Guru’s Heart Practice: Dispeller of All Obstacles and the Guru’s Heart Practice:
Fulfillment of Wishes.↑ That is, Tuesday 15 July, 1958.