Concerning Nezhi Tertön

by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

For the attention of the gods and human beings in general, including Nezhi Tertön:

Nezhi Tulku Rigdzin Chökyi Döndrup has been recognized as a sublime being by Drikung Tertön
Kyura Ösel Dorje, who also determined that he is a revealer of termas. I myself, based on
certain dream indications, have also become convinced that he is a tertön and the latest rebirth
of Shübu Palgyi Sengé.[1]

In the past, he has undertaken recitation retreats for the Three Roots of the Nyingma tradition
on a vast scale, and I see this as a cause for rejoicing. Henceforth, he should also exert
himself in the approach and accomplishment practices related to both Kama and Terma,
mainly as a means to accomplish spontaneously his own and others' aims. Nor should he neglect
the essential requirements of his own treasure revelations. He should not write all manner
of prophecies, which are of dubious necessity. Only when it is practical and certain
to benefit the teachings and beings would it be appropriate to write a few such predictions.


It is important not to misrepresent the authenticity of anything including one's own treasures,
and never to lie but to speak truthfully. Chatter about seeing deities or seeing demons
is an indication that Māra has infiltrated one’s speech, so be careful. It is important
to develop signs through the approach, accomplishment and activity rites and the preparatory
practice related to one’s own treasures. Otherwise, there is no use hoping that one’s own
treasures will bring benefit to beings. As long as one can practice there will be no dearth
of treasure teachings.

To have the means to spread the Buddhist teachings, pacify sickness, famine and conflict, and
bring happiness and wellbeing to the land of Tibet, is what it means to be an emissary of
Padma. By contrast, to tell lies, crave women and alcohol, behave as erratically as a monkey,
and gossip excessively, like someone driven mad by a life-wind disorder, only serves
to destroy Guru Padma’s teachings, as is clear from the discussion of treasure-revealers
in the Pema Kathang.

All gods and humans should only assist this lama as he acts on behalf of the teachings and beings
in the proper way in order to bring about great benefit, and not do anything that might
cause harm.

Jamyang Khyentse Tulku wrote this with positive intentions at Dzongsar Monastery. May it prove
virtuous and auspicious!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.