The Moonlight of Auspiciousness
Prayer for the Swift Return of the Supreme Tulku
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om swasti
Oṃ svasti!
ngak la wanggyur jamgön gyepé ter
Master of speech, treasure delighting Mañjunātha,
do ngak lodrö gyatsö dzö changwa
Bearer of oceanic insights into sūtra and mantra,
zhen la penpé dzetrin pata yé
Whose activity to benefit others is unbounded—
palden lamé zhab la solwa deb
Glorious guru, at your feet I pray.

gang khyö chö kyi ying su nyom zhuk kyang
Although you have entered the ultimate dharma-sphere,1
ten dror jé chak tukjé mi dor zhing
Do not give up your compassionate concern for the teachings and beings,
tsé chen nyingpö ringluk salwé chir
But in order to illuminate the tradition of Tsechen [Kunga] Nyingpo,
lar yang chok gi tulku nyur zheng sol
Swiftly arise once again in supreme nirmāṇakāya form.

nyikma nga dö ten drö gü sel zhing
Banishing the ills of fivefold degeneration among teachings and beings,
rik dang tsewa sherab langtso gyé
Blossoming with youthful intelligence, kindness and enlightened potential,
gyalwa gyepé chöpa lek nepé
And abiding by the conduct that delights the victorious ones—
chok gi tulku khyé pak nang dzé sol
May such a supreme and noble tulku shine forth, I pray.

deyang barché dü kyi yul lé gyal
Then may you may triumph in the battle with obstructive demons,
kutsé mishik yündu tenpa dang
Live long with indestructible vitality,2
sen sam gompé yönten tayepar
And acquire infinite qualities of learning, contemplation and meditation—
bemé nga wang jorwé tashi shok
May all be auspicious so that this may effortlessly come to pass.

Thus, when the sovereign of Dharma and supreme guide [in the lineage] of the great Lord Evaṃpa,
Khangsar Khenchen Dampa Rinpoche, departed for a pure realm, I, Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö,
reverently took up the instruction of his own kinsman and heart-son, Gönzik Zhabdrung Rinpoche,
and wrote this as I supplicated with single-pointed devotion.3 I pray that the gurus,
victorious ones and their heirs may confer their blessings, so that this may become a cause
for the swift emergence of the moonlight of a supreme nirmāṇakāya. Sarvadā maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "mchog sprul myur 'byon gsol 'debs//" in 'Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. (BDRC W1KG12986).
Vol. 3: 459–460

Version: 1.0-20220324
↑ Reading dbyangs as dbyings; snyams as snyoms.↑ Reading bstan as brtan.↑ Reading brtse gcig
as rtse gcig