Praise of Longchen Rabjam[1]

by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Oṃ svasti.Omniscient lord, who expounded in this northern landThe secret treasury of the sublime
Victorious One,Lord of Sages unrivalled throughout the three worldsThe all-knowing one,
supreme among human beings.

The epithet 'all-knowing' may permeate like camphorAnd be widely heard, but in reality,Drimé
Özer, you are a second Victorious One,Like glorious Meru amidst a range of golden mountains.


You mastered the ocean of the Sage’s excellent words,Skilfully distinguished the tenets of Outsiders
and Insiders,And became a true sun of the entire teachings, Longchenpa,No one is
there throughout this world who compares to you.

You have always been awakened but assumed a human guise,Incomparable pioneer of the supreme
vehicle’s teachings,The lord of secrets, warrior-like Garab Dorje in person,Drimé Özer, 'immaculate
radiance' of the wisdom sun.

Your speech, like the sweetest nectar from a lotus,Perfectly invigorates those of superior intelligence.And
at the close of the five-hundred-year period many whose mindsAre supremely
knowledgeable arose through the force of your fine explanations.

As most scholars hastened onto tortuous paths,You set a straight course by means of the two
truths.Not confusing or misrepresenting the books of tenets,You are the unique eye bringing
joy to all who know.

With the light of the vajra jewel of luminositySet as the ultimate pinnacle of all vehicles,You
dispel the darkness of delusion throughout the three worlds—Ever-perfect primordial guru
and protector, to you I bow.

From now on, throughout the course of all my lives to come,May I behold your face and receive
the blessings of your three secrets.May I gain the realization of the victor and his heirs,And
may all beings reach the sublime level of omniscience!

This prayer was offered on the twentieth day of the twelfth month in the Water Snake year.[2]
Siddhir bhavantu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.