Prayer to the Lineage of the Great Chetsün’s Profound Essence of Vimala
by Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Thayé & Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

sizhi khyabdak kunzang dömé gön
Primordial protector Samantabhadra, omnipresent lord of existence and peace,
rangjung rigpa kur min dorjé sem
Vajrasattva, naturally arisen awareness matured into an enlightened form,
tsolmé tek chok tönpa garab la
And Garab Dorje, teacher of the sublime vehicle that involves no effort—
solwa deb so gongpé jingyi lob
To you I pray: inspire me with the blessings of your enlightened intent!

ati dzö dzin jampal shenyen zhab
Noble Mañjuśrīmitra, holder of the treasury of Ati teachings,
rigpa tsal gyi wang tob shri singha
Śrī Siṃha, who received the empowerment of rigpa’s dynamic strength,
pochen dorjé kur zheng bimalar
And Vimalamitra, who arose in a vajra body of great transference—
solwa deb so gongpé jingyi lob
To you I pray: inspire me with the blessings of your enlightened intent!

gang dé jezung milob lam tarchin
Chetsün Sengé Wangchuk, who was guided by Vimala,
ösal ku nyé ché tsün sengé wang
Completed the path of no-more-learning and obtained a kāya of luminosity,
sang dzin khandro pal gyi lodrö mar
And the ḍākinī Palgyi Lodröma, keeper of secrets—
solwa deb so gongpé jingyi lob
To you I pray: inspire me with the blessings of your enlightened intent!

bima yabsé yeshe gyumé gar
Magical emanation of the wisdom of Vima and his heir,
khyabdak ösal trulpé dorjé zhab
All-pervasive lord Ösel Trulpé Dorje,1
bairo ngö nang tennyi yung drung ling
And Vairotsana in person, Tennyi Yungdrung Lingpa—2
solwa deb so gongpé jingyi lob
To you I pray: inspire me with the blessings of your enlightened intent!

natsok rangdrol pema bidza dang
Natsok Rangdrol,3 Padma Vijaya,4
khorlö gönpo chökyi lodrö jé
Lord of the maṇḍala circle, noble Chökyi Lodrö,
rabjam tsa sum gyalwé kyilkhor la
And the maṇḍala of infinite victorious ones, the Three Roots—
solwa deb so gongpé jingyi lob
To you I pray: inspire me with the blessings of your enlightened intent!

rimpa wang gi mindrol chikchar dzok
May the stages of empowerment perfectly mature and liberate me all at once,
sem jong nyamlen sizhi ching lé drol
May mind-training practice free me from the bonds of existence and quiescence,
drib dak tsok dzok mögü tsé du chin
May obscurations be purified, accumulations perfected, and devotion reach full measure,
lamé jinlab gyü la jukpar shok
And may the guru’s blessings infuse my mindstream.

go sum trulpé zhi tsa drung né chö
May I eradicate the basis of delusion in my three doors of body, speech and mind,
kadak rangnang rimé ngön du gyur
May I actualise the primordial purity, which is self-appearing and without bias,
lhündrub nang zhi zé sar khyol né kyang
And having reached the exhaustion of the four visions of spontaneous perfection,
zhönnu bumkü ying su changchub shok
May I awaken in the sphere of the youthful vase body.

zakpa rang zé jungwa rang sar deng
With defilements naturally dissipated, elements naturally disappeared,
drenpa rangdrol zangtal ö kyi lü
And consciousness naturally liberated, in an unobstructed body of light,
sengé wangchuk nyi dang nyam gyur né
May I become the equal of Sengé Wangchuk himself,
drolwa nam zhi khorwa dong truk shok
And through the four modes of liberation empty saṃsāra from its depths.

Lodrö Thayé composed this in a remote location. May virtue and excellence increase.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Sources:
blo gros mtha' yas. "lce btsun chen po'i bi ma la'i zab tig gi brgyud pa'i gsol 'debs/" In blo
gros mtha' yas (ed.). rin chen gter mdzod chen mo/. New Delhi: Shechen Publications, 2007–2008.
Vol. 56: 247–248
'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "lce btsun snying thig gi brgyud 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos
kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir, H.P.: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. (W1KG12986). Vol.
3: 405

Version: 1.0-20220405
↑ I.e., Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo (1820–1892).↑ I.e., Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Thayé (1813–1899).↑
I.e., Adzom Drukpa Drodül Pawo Dorje (1842–1924).↑ I.e., Shechen Gyaltsab Gyurme Pema Namgyal
(1871–1926).