Prayer for the Long Life of the Sixteenth Karmapa1
by Sakya Trichen, Ngawang Kunga Tekchen Palbar

om swasti
Oṃ svasti!
kalpa zangpö namdren drukpa dang
The sixth guide of this Fortunate Aeon2
drubchen sara ha yi trulpé ku
And nirmāṇakāya emanation of the mahāsiddha Saraha,
dü sum khyenpé kyé treng chudrukpa
Sixteenth in the garland of rebirths of Düsum Khyenpa,
rigpé dorjé zhabpé ten gyur chik
Rigpé Dorje, may your lotus feet remain secure!

khyenpé chö kyi denyi jizhin zik
With knowledge, you see the nature of phenomena just as it is,
tsewé drowa kün gyi kyab dzé ching
With love, you provide protection to all wandering beings,
nüpé dü lé gyalwé karma pa
And with power, you are the Karmapa, victorious over māras—
rigpé dorjé zhabpé ten gyur chik
Rigpé Dorje, may your lotus feet remain secure!

tsok nyi kyilkhor gyepa lé jungwé
With the light of activity sprung from the full maṇḍala of twofold accumulation,
trinlé ö kyi gyalten kundé tsal
You cause the jasmine grove of the Victorious One’s teachings to grow,
pel dzé damchö mawé dawa chok
You who are a sublime moon among exponents of sacred Dharma—
rigpé dorjé zhabpé ten gyur chik
Rigpé Dorje, may your lotus feet remain secure!

nam mang trimden bum gyi khenpo té
Preceptor of a hundred thousand possessors of multifaceted ethics,
gyalsé changchub sempa jewé yab
Father of ten million bodhisattva heirs to the victors,
drang yé rigpa dzinpé lobpön ché
Great master of vidyādharas beyond count—
rigpé dorjé zhabpé ten gyur chik
Rigpé Dorje, may your lotus feet remain secure!

tenpé gyaltsen dzambüling du tsuk
You have planted the victory banner of the teachings in this world,
drakpé baden chok nam küntu yo
The flag of your renown now flutters in each and every direction,
gyalwé trinlé ngawa karma pa
And you uphold the activity of the victorious ones—Karmapa,
rigpé dorjé zhabpé ten gyur chik
Rigpé Dorje, may your lotus feet remain secure!

tubpé wangpö tenpa pelwa dang
A propagator of the teachings of the Lord of Sages,
nyikdü drowa nam kyi gön nyi du
And a guardian of beings in this degenerate age,
jikten wangchuk namtrul karma pa
You are the Karmapa, emanation of Lokeśvara—
rigpé dorjé zhabpé ten gyur chik
Rigpé Dorje, may your lotus feet remain secure!

lumé könchok sum gyi denpa dang
Through the truth of unfailing Three Jewels
khyepar chiwa mepé chok jinpé
And through the blessings of the hosts of long-life deities
tsé yi lhatsok nam kyi jinlab kyi
Who grant the supreme boon of immortality in particular,
jitar mönpé dön di drub gyur chik
May this prayer be fulfilled according to our aspirations!

Thus, in response to the request, supported by a gift, of the treasurer Damchö Yongdu, this
aspiration was made single-pointedly by Sakya Trizin Ngawang Kunga. All is virtuous!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols.
Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012 (BDRC W1KG12986). Vol. 3: 443–444

Version: 1.0-20220323
↑ The original is untitled; this title has been added by the translator.↑ The Karmapas are said
to be emanations of Lion’s Roar (seng+ge'i nga ro), who will be the sixth buddha of this
Fortunate Aeon.