Vast Clouds of Blessings

In Praise of the Omniscient Lord of Dharma

by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Foremost among those with supreme, unchanging accomplishment,You fully awakened into inner radiance[1]A
lord of the maṇḍala with pristine wisdom form—Ngakgi Wangpo, 'Lord of Speech',
to you I pay homage.

You discovered the wisdom of omniscience,Spontaneously accomplishing the twofold aim, sovereign
of Dharma,Protector for all those in the three worlds without a refuge—Drimé Özer, 'Stainless
Light', to you I pay homage.

Oceanic treasury of knowledge, love and power,Single embodiment of the three buddha families,The
mere thought of whom banishes the fears of existence and quiescence—Tsultrim Lodrö, 'Ethical
Intelligence’, to you I pay homage.

Within the vast primordial expanse of SamantabhadraThe splendour of sambhogakāya enjoyment is
spontaneously present,And the inconceivable nirmāṇakāya tames in appropriate ways—Dorje
Ziji, 'Adamantine Brilliance', to you I pay homage.

With all the various perceptions of saṃsāra and nirvāṇaNaturally freed within the central channel
of luminosity,You are the supreme crown jewel amidst oceanic scholars and adepts—Omniscient
Lord of Dharma, to you I pay homage.

Your qualities, which defy the imagination,Are difficult for immature minds to fathom.Yet, through
even this partial account,May the guru’s blessings infuse us.

In the expanse of five-coloured light within our hearts,May you remain forever, delightedly
and never parting,And there ignite the four lamps of twofold knowledge,The expression of aware
and empty dharmatā realization.

May the darkness of ignorance and conceptualization be dispelled,And may we awaken within the
vast expanse of the realizationOf the supreme vidyādhara guru,Lord of Speech, knower of
all that can be known.

May the lives of those who uphold the teachings be secure,May any obstacles to the practice
of the DharmaOr its propagation throughout the world be dispelled,And may the teachings of
the definitive secret flourish.

May the study and practice of the Victor’s teachings in generalAnd the Ancient Translations
in particular spread throughout every direction,And may the tradition of the Vajra Pinnacle
of LuminosityBlaze as brightly as the sun!

Thus, Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso, alias Rigdzin Kunzang Ösal Nyingpo Tsal, offered this prayer in
the Omniscient Guru’s cave at Gangri Tökar. Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.