The Hook of Compassion
Calling the Guru from Afar
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

lama khyen no
Guru, watch over me!
Three times.
sangye kündü kyi ngowo
Essence and embodiment of all the buddhas,
lungtok damchö kyi dzö chen
Great treasury of the sacred Dharma of scripture and realization,
pakpé gendün gyi ngadak
Sovereign of the noble saṅgha community,
tsawé lama dé khyen no
Root guru, watch over me!
dak gyü chö dang drepar jin gyi rang lob shik
Inspire me to integrate the Dharma with my own mindstream!

marik münpa selwé nyima
Sun that dispels the darkness of ignorance,
gödö chi gar jungwé norbu
Jewel providing all that one might wish for or require,
khorwé gyatsor drolwé depön
Captain leading to deliverance from saṃsāra’s ocean,
tsawé lama dé khyen no
Root guru, watch over me!
dak gyü chö dang drepar jin gyi rang lob shik
Inspire me to integrate the Dharma with my own mindstream!

kyab kündüpa tsa sum gyi gyalpo
Embodiment of all sources of refuge and sovereign of the Three Roots,
drenpa tsam gyi sizhi yi dung sel
The mere thought of whom dispels the anguish of existence and quiescence,
kabab dün gyi sangdzö la wanggyur
Controller of the secret treasury of the seven authoritative transmissions,
ösal trulpé shenyen dé khyen no
Spiritual guide Emanation of Luminosity,1 watch over me!
dak gyü chö dang drepar jin gyi rang lob shik
Inspire me to integrate the Dharma with my own mindstream!

gyal künkhyen rab malüpa chikdü
Embodiment of the wisdom of all the victorious ones without exception,
trulpé lo tsa nampar nang dzé kyi ngowo
Essence of the emanated lotsāwa Vairotsana,
dzö ngé shingta gangchen drowa yi gönpo
Pioneer of the Five Treasuries, protector of the beings of the Land of Snows,
pema gar wang lodrö tayé dé khyen no
Pema Garwang Lodrö Thayé,2 watch over me!
dak gyü chö dang drepar jin gyi rang lob shik
Inspire me to integrate the Dharma with my own mindstream!

zhenpen tukkyé kyi gocha
With the armour of an altruistic resolve to awaken,
gyalsé changsem kyi tsul zung
You adopt the ways of a bodhisattva heir to the victorious,
do ngak chö tsul gyi bangdzö
Veritable trove of Dharma teachings of sūtra and mantra,
jamyang chökyi lodrö dé khyen no
Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö, watch over me!
dak gyü chö dang drepar jin gyi rang lob shik
Inspire me to integrate the Dharma with my own mindstream!

né khorlo zhipé podrang na
In the palace of the four main chakras,
lama ku zhi lhatsok dé khyen no
Deities of the four-kāya guru, watch over me!
bum sang sher yé wang chok dé kur né
Grant the supreme vase, secret, knowledge, and wisdom empowerments,
ku zhi gopang tobpa jin gyi rang lob shik
And inspire me to attain the level of the four kāyas!

dorna changchub nyingpö bardu
In short, as from now until I reach the essence of awakening,
tsawé lama rinpoche la
I pray constantly and with single-pointed focus
taktu tsechik solwa deb na
To the precious root guru,
bemé chö tün ngödrub tsol chik
Effortlessly bestow the attainments, ordinary and supreme!3

Thus, this was written by Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö. May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "Bla ma rgyang 'bod thugs rje’i lcags kyu" In 'Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. (W1KG12986)
Vol. 8: 536–537

Version: 1.0-20220302
↑ This verse is addressed to Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo (1820–1892) and here refers to his name
Ösal Trulpe Dorje ('od gsal sprul pa’i rdo rje), which translates as Vajra Emanation of Luminosity.↑
I.e., Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Thayé.↑ Reading chos mthun as mchog thun.